YouTube it's Chris welcome back to the
channel I've just spent a good part of
my life the past week benchmarking
customized Windows builds to one proof a
point and two I wanted to do this for
quite a long time so in advance I
apologize if I leave anything out in
this video there's a link down in the
description has has a description of
everything all the benchmarks The
Benchmark files and everything if you
guys are interested in taking and having
a look so this video we're talking about
debunking isos and windows optimization
Windows 10 versus Windows 11 versus
admin account right it's already been
debunked there's a link there this is
the video previously if you want to go
check it out so because there was no
difference between 10 or 11 I've decided
and I've chosen Windows 11 uh as using
that as a base for most of the tests
here in between testing customized
Windows is also because 10 is going to
drop support in about a year so that
sort of made more sense let's clear up
confusion around the 24 H2 update there
is no performance difference when
running games or benchmarks on Windows
10 or Windows 11 admin or local account
across all's versions as long as you're
running the game as
administrator right there's a lot of
carry on in the internet right now and a
lots of YouTubers are showing benchmarks
of uh you know admin account versus not
admin account and admin versus not admin
the explanations from YouTubers on this
topic have become muddled and misleading
people are mistaken thinking that 24h do
is some kind of a golden performance fix
it's simply not the case yes some games
do run better when launched as
administrator the 24 H2 update and
future Windows plans to address this so
games won't need to be ran as admin to
achieve Optimal Performance due to this
the stock Windows 10 Stock Windows 11
Windows 10 server and windows 11 server
have UAC disabled to rule out this issue
in any of the tests so long story short
it wasn't an admin thing uh admin
account thing right the hidden admin
account it was just like you could run
the game as administrator and like the
issue was fixed and it only happens with
some games and some benchmarks
regardless of VBS so I've seen that ages
before I remember a long time ago when
pubg first came out if you didn't run it
as admin your frames were like worse and
so that's debunked want to get that out
of the way before we go and talk about
the further testing so iso's tested
right so my optimization pack Windows 11
23 H2 packs here we did Atlas OS um 23
H2 uh revision so revios or revision
whatever they call it Kiros is a um
operating system kind of Base towards
Counter
Strike um Spectre
OS um I did use the super light version
so all of these are windows 1123 H2
we've got uh Fox OS by cat gamer op
probably one of the cringier ones um xos
OS I I I was suggested to test this out
by my Discord Community I I have no idea
what this was it was uh interesting um
Colonel OS the fact that this Discord
Community has
76,000 members is just crazy I mean
anyway GG OS um and it's quite
interesting a lot of these isos in
particular revision
Kirby uh Fox
OS um and ggos they are all people that
came from my community from the
beginning a long time ago and they've
kind of got gone and made their own take
on a custom windows ISO which is
interesting um I did Windows
XL um I chose 24 H2 for that one uh I
just want to mix things up a little bit
right
um use this the light version of that um
and then yeah just like Windows 10 Stock
Windows 11 stock Windows uh 2025 server
which is 24 H2 Windows 11 and Windows 10
server 2022 which is 21
H2 now I decided not to test Enterprise
ltsc cuz I already had enough of my
plate it's been a nightmare to do all
this so testing ltsc isn't unnecessary
since it's essentially a branch of
standard Windows builds with some blow
removed and only security updates so
there's no point me testing ltsc when
it's just like Windows 10 or Windows 11
with like some of the uwp not there uwp
blow apps like there's just there's just
no point so I didn't bother testing
those I thought it was worth testing
server cuz they're a slightly different
build um yeah anyway so before you look
at these results and I'm not actually
going to really show you guys many of
the results in this video I'm sorry I'm
not trying to clickbait you to go to the
GitHub link B it's just like there's
just no point and you'll see why soon
you're analyzing these benchmarks to
choose the best ISO stop the bench the
differences are simply due to variation
in Benchmark runs you guys need to
understand this I have have limited time
and I already wasted a week so I've only
done a single run okay if the Run was
completely messed up I delete it and do
another run right but most proper
YouTubers will actually Benchmark
properly and they'll do like 10 runs and
average it out and maybe remove a bad
run before they average it out and
they'll actually test more or less more
in a game situation so it's more CPU
heavy right there actual more of a
reality of what's going on in game I
have limited time I needed something
really consistent so I've measured you
know average frames 1% lows or 0.1% lows
and through Lany in short burst tests in
actual benchmarks so it was the best way
for me to do it quick
concisely and
consistently right so if you're going to
read these like blue is average FPS um
like dark gray is 1% lows and really
light gray is 0.1% lows on the left here
please don't don't forget the left part
it is through put and end system leny
okay using my external to it's all
explained down here okay all my testing
methodology and my settings I've been as
open as I can with everything so if
anyone wants to to dissect my testing
methodology or isn't happy with it um
they can simply go do it themselves or
they can go see the raw files I wasn't
at all biased in any of these tests
either I made it sure to be completely
consistent as I good and if anyone else
um genuinely thinks that uh X is better
than y and they can do clear concise
Fair Benchmark runs and show me
otherwise then I'll test it out myself I
actually challenge you guys I challenge
any of the people that have customized
isos or um Carry On about customized
isos or X or Y Windows setting that it's
that great you know I'm on this OS and
it's that great like I challenge you um
I've done a video on how to measure
frames and system length you but easily
reframe you there's a testing
methodology that you can use prove it to
me okay prove it to me if you guys don't
think this testing methodology is good
enough do something and prove it to me
challenge you any of the people that are
making custom isos and whatever so
anyway the results all come down to
Benchmark variation there's nothing to
really talk about I'm not going to show
these you guys can go to the GitHub link
Down Below in the description of the
video if you want to see them there was
an outlier though it was a little weird
server ran way better than Modern
Warfare 2 Benchmark and I came to the
same conclusion in game which is kind of
why I've also included
separate um just in-game whole
benchmarks here right so
you can see like servers clearly
performing better in 4k and Incredibly
better in 1080P so that tells me it's
like some kind of a CPU issue uh with
that g engine specifically on normal
Windows 10 Windows 11 not sure what's
going on there but um I'll read what
I've wrote about it just here in a
second I'll scroll down so conclusion
when considering Benchmark variations
and I really hope you guys are
considering that not looking at like the
top one and thinking that it's the best
or trying to look at the lowest latency
monitor uh results and think it's the
best benchmarks are variable like they
are okay PCS are variable uh you won't
ever ever get the exact same run every
time it'll always be slightly different
right and laty tool is variable um only
only slightly but these things happen
right so most Windows optimizations
offer little to no performance gains so
even demarking myself here and some of
my guides right the exception lies with
older and Hardware where where minimal
background processes and disabling
Windows Defender can provide noticeable
improvements due to CP usage right this
likely explains the Benchmark
differences often seen when people
promote custom isos most of the time
these tests are usually conducted on
systems with a few generation old
low-end CPUs I've seen this quite often
a bunch of these optimization guides
they will show you benchmarks to show
I'm getting 50 more frames in Counter
Strike or something like that when in
reality they're using a really old CPU
like a
4770k and um you know the default bloat
and defender on is causing 40% you know
30% CPU usage on their system so like
there's that we have to take that into
consideration and when you have a really
really good CPU that's not so much of an
issue so there's that that's the real
conclusion that I've come down to now
why risk installing a custom ISO that
could contain malware spyware bad
optimizations key loggers or even
Bitcoin miners a vanilla Windows
installation is sufficient safe and you
can Achi achieve optimizations using
simple scripts instead if needed at all
now I won't deny that you can vastly
improve your desktop experience being
experience by optimizing Windows there's
that but in reality when you do the
right things that actually matter
there's no difference when you're
comparing an actual real game with real
frames real 1% lows and actual through
laty so anyway the exception to the rule
and the odd one out that I found in
these tests there's one one exception I
can't explain Windows 11 2025 server and
Windows 10 2022 server perform
significantly better when CPU Bound in
the 1080p Modern Warfare 2 Benchmark
right after reinstalling and retesting
Windows 10 11 Windows 11 server Windows
10 server yes I did all of these and
then I reinstalled these just to make
sure the my sanity was being challenged
at this point but anyway and running the
Modern Warfare 2 Benchmark as well as
testing in a real match I realized the
same I reached the same conclusion for
some reason server versions are
performing better when CPU Bound in
Modern Warfare
2 this seems unexplainable from my
perspective likely due to poor engine
optimization side note Modern Warfare 2
performed poorly on Windows 10 server
20122 and those chipset drivers are
installed benchmarks are identical on
the other windows builds with or without
chipset drivers right so what on Warfare
2 is performing better on server 10 or
11 doesn't matter significantly better
okay we're going from like roughly 380
FPS right with those 1% lows you guys
can go to the GitHub link if you want to
have a look at it so like 446 443 FPS
like there's variation in these
benchmarks it's not I mean like not just
the frames have gone up the 1% lows have
gone up as well so like there's
something going on I don't know I can't
explain it like I said I think it's just
probably the developers I'm going to
blame them at this point I'm not telling
you all to go server
my next videos are actually going to be
um how to install server and set it up
and use it but that's besides the point
so there's that okay now hopefully both
of you out there are smart enough to
realize Benchmark variation and don't
look at these benchmarks and think oh my
God you know um oh I play Call of Duty
and server 2022 is better I'm going to
go on that like please if you understand
oh sorry not Call of Duty 2 sorry the
other ones like as an example
you know I play Hitman 3 so I'm going to
go on ggos cuz that I mean that game
it's like guys honestly like the the
numbers are they're all the same the
numbers Mason like they're they're
literally the same they're within
variations of runs maybe some isos have
slightly worse 1% lows because of bad
optimizations but that's not what I'm
really seeing here like it's all just
Placebo dumb so speaking of placebo
dumb and you people that are doing
custom isos or these custom ISO
communities obsessed with this stupid
stuff what about Lyon benchmarks so's
some link to Lyon and exper in delad
exper with um Windows tools leny Monitor
and exper are only useful for diagnosing
driver issues or audio dropouts related
to drivers their purpose has been
misunderstood in the tweaking
communities with many mistakenly believe
they measure real enter and Lany in
reality driver Lany is a minor part of
the Lany CH so obsessing over these
numbers is a waste of time and it really
is okay how many times I don't know how
to have to argue with you people this is
end to end system Lany right here okay
try to zoom in the whole page here so
you guys can see right you're obsessing
over this and probably only a small part
of this right with using Lany mod or
exper okay like lowering those numbers
ain't going to do like you want to
lower those numbers disable like ccd1 on
your CPU U you know as an example and
have worse frames or like disable like
smt or hyperthreading and you're going
to have worse frames so you're going to
have way worse latency like like it's
just it's so dumb I'm over it like you
know strip out everything in Windows so
Lany of course it's going to look like
lower you have less drivers running and
less stuff running but is it actually
affecting really real throughput Lany
like real throughput Lany like no it's
not so people that are obsessing over
that you need to wake up and stop and
especially people that are using that as
a benchmark to show a custom ISO is
better is not the reality of the real
end user experience it is such a small
part and like I said it should only be
used diagnosing issues with certain
drivers um and as as Gamers we don't
usually have to do that like graphic
driver developers they know what they're
doing Windows know what they're doing
it's pretty rare that a r bad driver
comes out and usually if it's like a
driver causing an issue and spiking it's
probably come down to like a faulty
heart I do remember having an old
motherboard that had a um you know
killer eth in it and that was causing
lots of issues but that's a story for
another day that's that's that's a
hardware issue okay so what really
matters then it all boils down to the
basics here's my take on what truly
matters when optimizing for more frames
and lower actual latency real latency
I'm planning on to demonstrate scaling
with these factors in future videos but
for now here are my thoughts no promises
on the videos but we'll see about that
so what actually matters you want to get
more frames you want to lower your
laning right you're obsessed with these
things or your competitive player the
things that matter fastest gaming CPU to
spit out frames keep up with a
GPU it's a thing I mean at the end of
the day guys you're tweaking your
settings you're trying to make minimal
background tasks you're lowering your
settings in games to make it more CPU
bound so the CPU can sped out as many
frames as you can so the GPU is not like
loaded up right there that fastest
gaming GPU to sped out frames to keep up
with the CPU resolution and game
settings right okay I do see a lot of
people that think oh well I'm still on
1080p I should probably just get a 4
4060 instead of a 4090 well there's so
much more to it than that because you
know your card's going to be able to
speed out more frames even if you're
still on 1080P and it's going to have
lower GP usage so it's still going to be
lower input lag okay is that I from
memory actually remember optimal Tech
testing this you know um and you know
testing like 1080p going from like I
think it was a 470 to a 490 and there
was like 1.5 millisecond lower input
like simply for the fact that it was low
GP usage even though the frames were
similar in that particular scenario so
yeah like buying the fastest card is
kind of PID to win like that right not
to mention you could probably up some
settings and have the similar latency
because it's such a good card so make
your game look pretty and have lower
input lag okay Ram optimizations decent
Ram kit XMP DCP Expo to speed up the CPU
right that's pretty self-explanatory
okay fastest High refresh rate monitor
includes lower resolution okay so that's
pretty self-explanatory OLED instead of
va IPS and TN OLED is King right now
it's unfortunate that for the 1080p
Gamers there aren't really any like
1080p esport oleds out but they will
come out soon mark my words um oled's
just King when it comes to Pure
throughput latency um hard one box sorry
monitors on box have measured this um
the a a 4K 240 OLED is lower input lag
than a 540 her TN because oed's that
good so you know there are 3604 40p
Leeds that are out that's kind of The
Sweet Spot there're going to be better P
panels that'll come out um and 1080p or
panels that will come out for you guys
that do e Sports and mark my words they
they will take over the market because
they they're just incredible um lowest
latency Mouse lowest latency keyboard
don't need to talk about that
overclocking Ram CPU and GPU to make
your components run faster stability
this is a huge one and honestly a lot of
my clients that come to me for more
optimization service that's literally
what it comes down to stability like
they might have a incompatible Ram kit
with their certain motherboard or CPU
have to make it work or they got a
faulty Ram kit or you know a faulty CPU
or like something is wrong like that
causes frame rate and ly issues
massively good performance and graphics
driver settings so I mean I don't want
to talk about this too much but like
it's just stuff the performance in the
nid control panel like vsync stuff gsync
stuff there is also a thing with like
display scaling slightly better but I'm
not going to talk about that too much
here good low game config and in game
settings probably a huge one in
here as well um you know to achieve
higher frames and lower GP usage right
um flip modeling game I recently talked
about this in my um capture card video
if you guys want to go check that out
you want to be in Hardware independent
Flip or Legacy flip um I'm not going to
go too much more in depth about that
lowering R lowering resolution DSS or
FSR techniques to achieve higher FPS and
lower GPU usage obviously that can be
counted with just buying a better
graphics card right faster graphics card
but yeah not everyone has the luxury of
buying a 490 so you have things like
that that you can use one thing I will
add you don't want to be using frame
generation okay that's going to that's a
different topic that's going to add
input lag but just pure DSS or FSR is
just literally like running a lower
resolution okay you can get more frames
if you're seeing more frames the length
are coming down to aside from frame
generation okay as discussed here the
conclusion is that Defender and
background blow primarily impact low-end
CPUs and systems the most and look I
seen this myself okay at the end of the
day doesn't matter what cust ISO you're
on or what optimizations you're
doing my son's really old dual core
laptop could barely run roadblocks at 20
FPS I remov Defender and background apps
and it could run a clean 60 so that's a
pretty hard cor example of that but a
lot of these customized isos and their
benchmarks that you're showing they're
showing you look at the game they're
testing and look at how the hardware is
and then you can come to your own
conclusion there okay so there's that
not telling you all you should be like
removing Defender b or disabling it but
that is pretty much literally most of
the time what it comes down to I will
also mention Intel like AMD if you're on
AMD CPU doesn't really matter the power
plan doesn't matter but if you're on
Intel CPU generally speaking you want to
do c States off in BIOS and run a decent
power plan in Windows otherwise you CP
might be downclocking in game so like
obviously that's going to affect
performance of the game right so there's
that to consider but I don't wanted to
go I just wanted to cover the real
Basics here so anyway background
programs that use CPU GPU usage and like
these are there are lots of things like
NZXT um IQ software better you just go
into task manager and check CPU you can
check that like I see a lot lot of
people like using um GeForce filters
you're losing like 80 frames in a GP
bound situation well I am um depending
on the card and the game settings right
um and you know I see people using like
um Nvidia broadcast it's like tanking GP
usage like things things like that
things that are running in the
background that cause CPU and GP usage
like most of you can just go to task
manager and just check it's quite easy
to do so anyway down below is just more
info on the system and my testing
methodology I kept things very very fair
throughout all customized isos and all
builds are use the same graphics card
overclock Nvidia driver settings and
Spector settings by same buyer settings
same game config same game Launcher
settings um any post install
optimization scripts that are included
in the isos I ran them right I've left
the Nvidia graphic some of these
customized isos came with some scripts
to run different Nvidia driver settings
they do impact things okay that is
measurable I wanted to keep it fair so
I've used exactly the same Invidia
graphics driver settings from my
optimization guide to be fair okay I
think everyone could agree on that and
look Windows 10 versus Windows 11 like
Windows 11 has hags on by default
Windows 10 doesn't so hags is on both
windows 11 has VBS on or core isolation
on by default whereas Windows 10 doesn't
so that there it's off on both and
because of this whole new debacle and
some specific games have a problem if
they don't run an admin uac's disabled
on both local account on both as well
not a Microsoft account just to stop all
the sinking background um and
that's pretty much all we need to talk
about
so I've covered everything we're already
up to 22 minutes go check out the GitHub
guide um yeah I
mean a lot of Windows optimizations and
customizes are a waste of time there's
just no point to bother been wanting to
do this video for a long time to give a
bit of a f you to some of the people
that have been in my Discord and had a
fall out with me and caus a bunch of
drama and then created these custom isos
and just constantly talk about me
so screw you windows optimizations are a
scam a lot of it doesn't matter that is
all I have to say appreciate you guys
love you all peace out bye